---

layout: post  
title: "238"  
date: 2017-05-22 00:00:00 -700  
categories: Blog

---

I work on 3D models almost every day. Often I am creating new ones for 3D printing or game assets. Sometimes I am fixing up or prepping ones already created by someone else. I can say with some certainty that there is no right way to create a 3D model. There are techniques that suit certain situations but there is no fundamentally correct way to make a 3D model. None.  
This is when scores of people authoring hours of tutorials can tell me that I am wrong. They can point out all of the industry professionals that use process Y and how much better and faster and more efficient it is that process X. Complete Rubbish. There is no right way to create a 3D model. There are a lot of wrong ways, I have seen the results of many of them, but there is no right way.  
I’ve been at this for a long time. Maybe too long. The tools and techniques change, but the end result never really has. If you are creating a model with the intention of animating it there are certain requirements. If you are creating a model to be fed into a cnc system like a milling machine or 3d printer there are other requirements. If the model is for use in an interactive system with controls and physics like a game or simulation there are, again, different requirements. How you build the model, the tools you use, just doesn’t matter.   
If you are reading this, I didn’t write this for you. I wrote it for me. I just need to remind myself every once in awhile that the tools don’t matter. You can use all of them or none of them and the model that you end up with is the only thing that matters.   
  
​