---
layout: post
title: "620"
date: 2024-09-23 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
tags:
  - Writing
---
So this is week two of using Obsidian to write these posts.

It’s just a tool, so using Obsidian hasn’t really changed how I write. I have used a lot of different word processors and WYSIWYG text editors. For a hot minute, I used VS Code to write. I have tried writing with a pen and paper and transferring the words to digital later. I really hated that and it doesn’t really align with the way my brain works. 

I thought that using scrivener might change the way I write. It didn’t. Nothing really did. My process seems to be my process. I like to type. I like to have full freedom to change and edit on the fly. I like spellcheck. Any specialty tools don’t do much to change that. 

The only thing that Obsidian has done for me is make it simpler. No converting documents. No changing file formats. No selecting fonts. Just writing. On whatever keyboard and screen I have available.

For the most part, I like to write with a small wireless keyboard on an iPad. I will use a full keyboard if I need to, but I sort of prefer this. It’s simple. 

I think that’s what I like. I want to use Obsidian, because it’s simple. It’s quick, there is very little mental overhead, and I can pull out my phone and start using it in a few seconds.

It’s also very complicated. And I like that too.

The techy part of my brain that likes to have control over all the programs I use loved that I was able to set up my own GitHub repository for Obsidian and have everything sync through there. I can secure it how I like, and add the features I need without any of the cruft I’m never going to use.

When I write stories I like to have several documents open with my research and bits I have cut, but might use some other place. Doing that with Obsidian is trivial. It takes the best parts of VS Code and simplifies them down to only the essentials.

I know that I could use an Obsidian vault as a full blown project management system, and maybe someday I will, but for now I think I just really like the simplicity. 
