---
layout: post
title: "619"
date: 2024-09-16 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
tags:
  - Writing
---
I’m testing out a new way of writing these post. I’m not sure if it will work for me yet, but I’ve been having problems with the way I have been doing it for the last (checks watch) ten years or so.

My method is usually to write them in google docs and then copy/paste them into whatever content management system I had going and then publish them to my website.

My site used to be hosted at one of the big hosting places as a custom built site. I changed over to one of them big Site Builder services for many years because they offered a really good deal and, up until a couple years ago, I was able to keep re-uping my subscription at that price. They stopped offering that price, so I opted to build the site myself and host it in a much more agnostic way. If, for whatever reason I have to change hosts now, I shouldn’t have to change my site at all.

This move has made it much easier for me to maintain my site, but I still had a problem. If I were to write a post on my iPad or on my phone, It became significantly more difficult to upload those to the site, at least not without turning on my PC to push the changes.

I have done some minor work on that, and now I can push changes and add posts from a few places, but writing the posts in google docs and then copy/pasting them had become fairly unwieldy. If there were any images or videos attached to a post, it became difficult to move a post without breaking formatting.

I have just now moved over to Obsidian for writing posts, which has the added benefit of being Markdown from the start. All my posts are now in markdown files on the site, so it makes sense to write them that way. I keep it all in a Git repository, and sync between devices using GitHub. I’ll test it out with images in a week or two. For now I think I’ll just play it safe with text only.

So far, this system seems like it should work pretty well. I suppose we will see, but I hope that I will be happier with this system than I have been with my old one for the past decade.
