---
layout: post
title: "612"
date: 2024-07-29 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

I’ve just finished writing the comments for this story contest I’m doing. I said it before, but it bears repeating. Reading, reviewing, and commenting on other people’s stories is so much more difficult than writing an original story. It’s so much more nerve wracking. Like what If I don’t like the story, like, I really think it stinks? (this did not happen to me this time thankfully) What sort of constructive criticism am I supposed to offer in that case? What if I love the story and think it’s perfect? I suppose that is easier, because it’s never hard delivering someone good news. But is it actually helpful to someone if I just praise their writing but really don’t give them any worthwhile feedback? 

Also, there are real people on the other end of these comments. People with feelings. And they are writers, which means they are likely a touch unstable (writers seem a wackier bunch than game developers). I’m joking, but I am serious about all of them being real people. 

We have all opted in to this, and we all want our peers to review our work and offer their honest opinions. Not platitudes, not ego stroking, but genuine constructive criticism. Criticism to help each other build up what is good about our stories, not just point out what is bad. Or, more to the point, what is in one person's subjective opinion, bad.

So I maintain, writing the comments is harder than writing the stories. But I chose this, so I have to write my comments now. 



