---
layout: post
title: "599"
date: 2024-04-29 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---


Sometime in the next couple of weeks, this site will probably experience some interruptions. It may even go offline for a bit. The time has come for the move.


I have been hosting it in one place for a while, but I am finding that the small amount of convenience that I get from hosting where it is now, does not make up for the lack of flexibility and portability I could have if I hosted it either myself, or at a place like GitHub.

Also, I’m sick of paying for hosting when I’m never going to use any of the extended features.

This would all be a tedious headache if it wasn’t for me from the past setting it all up and transferring most of the content of this site over to the new one. Thanks past me.

That’s not to say that it will all go perfectly smoothly. I’m sure there will be hiccups. There might be weeks when my post doesn’t go up exactly when I want and I might lose some links here and there. I think I have most of my post content intact, but I also know that there are a small handful of broken links scattered through my older posts.

On the upside, after I move everything over and do all the redirect shenanigans in the background, this site should be blazing fast and much easier for me to do weird things with. I tried embedding text adventures into some of the older post and it always proved to be a pain. Now that I will be in charge of all the backend code, I can probably add whatever sort of Twine or web player nonsense I want.

And I do want.

I still haven’t decided whether I will keep posting once a week like I have for almost 600 weeks, but probably. It’s a habit now. 
