---
layout: post
title: "661"
date: 2025-07-07T00:00:00
categories: Blog
tags:
  - Art
---
When I’m creating new 3D models, I like to start with extremely sparse meshes and build them up gradually. The upside to working that way is that it is sort of like filling out a sketch or building simple forms first in a sculpture, and then only adding detail and refinement when you feel like the shapes are right.

The downside is that you end up spending a lot of time looking at very simple shapes and sometimes it seems like they will never look more complex or interesting.

It’s times like those that you have to trust the process. I know that I work simple at the start for a reason, and I have to trust that I will eventually turn those simple shapes into something slightly better to look at. I have plenty of evidence that this is how I have done it in the past and it’s worked out well so far, but every single time, I reach a point in creating new models where I think they will never look better than a few boxes and cylinders.

If you haven’t already guessed, I have reached that point now. I know way back somewhere in the dark parts of my mind, that I have just set up these models for texturing and detail work, but since I haven’t done that work yet the models still look a little bland.

So now I have to trust the process. Know that I will eventually take those simple shapes and make them into something I won’t hate looking at.

It’s happening though, so maybe with some luck, I will have better looking models on my screen later this week.

