---
layout: post
title: "713"
date: 2026-07-06T00:00:00
categories: Blog
tags:
  - misc
cssclasses:
  - paragraph-indent
---
Over the next few weeks I will be writing some more short stories for a contest. I will likely have some things to jot down here about writing.

So right now I am going to do something a little different. I’m going to tell you about the best joke I have ever seen. 

Very early in I think my second or third year of university, I was walking past the archeology department building. I was probably on my way over to the drama department, or going To one of my very scattered labs. In any case I happened upon the best joke I have ever seen.

Someone had gotten hold of some tempera paint or chalk, I don’t remember which, and sketched out a large, say 6 or 8 foot long penis.

The drawing was crude and not very detailed, but that wasn’t the funny part. I mean, anybody can draw a dick. Sometimes that’s funny, but not usually.

The joke was the accompanying text. Under the giant dick, in full view of the the archeology building and written so that you could read through the windows, were the words “Dig this bone”

It is a joke that I think about a lot. It took into account, location, audience, breaking of expectations, and it was neither mean nor did it make the audience the butt of the joke. It was temporary paint, so it wasn’t even vandalism. It was just a precisely targeted and funny joke. The dick wasn’t even realistic enough to be offensive. It was just the most dumb, and the most clever joke I think I have ever seen.

I don’t know that I will ever write anything as good as that.
