---
layout: post
title: "701"
date: 2026-04-13T00:00:00
categories: Blog
tags:
  - GameDev
cssclasses:
  - paragraph-indent
---
Work continues slowly on my game. 

I have reworked a lot of my Blender to Godot flow. I have simplified some of my shader setup so that my CRT effect lives completely independent of any graphics it’s modifying. I have added menus, proper pausing, and a save/load functionality, though most of that hasn’t gelled to anything close to final.

My main goal for the next month or so is to finish the most basic part of the play loop. Go out, find victim, get them out of danger without hurting yourself, do any rescue work required to stabilize them, get them back to your ambulance. Now do that four or five more times. That’s it. That’s the loop.

Then comes all the fun stuff. Building out levels. Adding new hazards. Working on the meta progression of making enough money to buy new equipment and supplies, while navigating a capitalistic dystopia… that’s all for the future though. 

For now, it’s just get the loop done.

I already have a bunch of those systems built, but they aren’t bolted together in such a way that I can play the game yet. I’m a little scared to dive into all that, but I am also very excited to be able to play the game, even in a very prototype way. 

I told myself at the start of this project, that if I couldn’t get it to look like an alternate history version of a 90’s arcade game, then I wouldn’t keep going on it and I would work on something else instead.

Well, is sort of looks like an alternate history 90’s arcade game where they had unreasonable levels of realtime lighting tech to work with now. I guess I did that. Time to take the next step and make it play like an alternate history arcade game with physics and ragdoll and analog control. 

I hope it works. 

