---
layout: post
title: "001"
date: 2012-11-05 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><strong style="">So right now I'm working on art for one game, while programming another, and thinking about yet another. Maybe I should focus more, or maybe I'm just running from project to project, without ever finishing anything. Those accusations would be true. I also think that it is a fairly common way that people work, and it might be the way that I work best.<br><br>I never really feel like I've done anything if I'm not spinning a bunch of plates. Variety boosts me up. I tend to be much more productive on the current task when I know I have more lined up after it. I&rsquo;ve done a fair bit of production work, work for clients, work to hard deadlines. I&rsquo;ve found that both variety and deadlines are equally valuable in keeping me motivated and moving forward. When those two are well balanced, I tend to more productive. Tip too far toward variety and I don&rsquo;t get anything finished, tip to far toward deadlines and all my work is garbage. Too little of either and my motivation goes out the window.<br><br>Working mostly on my own means I don&rsquo;t have clients, or their deadlines. I also work from home and fit development in where I can, so I don&rsquo;t really get the volume of work done to make a dent in most projects. So I have the variety, I just need the deadlines. Deadlines that are actually attainable for the way I have to work. <br><br>So here's what I'm gonna do. I will put up a new post on this blog every Monday. Some of them will be quite small and some of them won't. Most of them will be about game development in some way or another.<br><br>Why? Well I've been working on a game for a while. You can see some of the concept art for it over in <a href="../untitled-project-design-gallery.html">this image gallery</a>. I&rsquo;m not working alone. I&rsquo;ve been working with another local developer. His Blog is <a href="http://krankyboygames.blogspot.ca/" target="_blank">over here</a>.<br><br>Why every Monday? I want to ramp up the asset creation part of development, and a sure way to force myself to do steady work is to build to a schedule. So every Monday I will put up a new blog post detailing some aspect of this games development. If you have any questions, please send them my way and I&rsquo;ll try to do a breakdown of the process. <br><br>We&rsquo;ll call this post 001. </strong><br></div>

		</div>
        