---
layout: post
title: "058"
date: 2013-12-09 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">Best Games - Wing Commander<br><br>Don&rsquo;t bother going back. You can&rsquo;t. Time has eroded this game. <br><br>Wing Commander a cultural relic that pushed technology, and craftsmanship forward. It plowed, and then paved new roads for future creators. This game created new verbs. <br><br>The first time I played Wing Commander was on a 286. It sported vga graphics and an adlib sound card, but it was still barely able to run this game. The front of the machine housed two floppy drives, a 3 &frac12; and a 5 &frac14;. Through some trial and error and delicate file shuffling, I was able to make the game think that several floppies were, in fact, a single drive. This let me play without ever seeing an &ldquo;insert disc&rdquo; screen, just so long as I could deftly swap disks when I heard a particular &ldquo;cachunk&rdquo; noise. It&rsquo;s worth noting that I could only do this because the the game was a pirated copy that everyone passed around school. I would feel bad about that, but I went on to buy every game in the series. I still have cd, dvd, and/or digital versions of all of the Wing Commander games. <br><br>The digital version of Wing Commander sits now, installed on my thoroughly modern computer. It is almost unplayable. Maybe it was just too far ahead of it&rsquo;s time. Maybe it always suffered from rough edges and 23 years have cast them into sharp relief. But after 23 years, the music, presentation, sense of sweeping adventure, that hasn&rsquo;t aged a day. After 23 years, Wing Commander still stands as high water mark. One of the best games.<br></div>

		</div>
        