---
layout: post
title: "047"
date: 2013-09-23 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">Ouya update<br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span>Well holy flying weasel balls! The Ouya is actually working! I can turn it on and have both picture and sound. Like, &nbsp;both, at the same time. On the same old ass TV. How can this possibly be? <br><br>This was the issue. Our TV is one of those older, HD ready jobbers. This means that is can display a 720p signal or a 1080i signal but not a 1080p signal. The TV has a dvi input that can downscale a 1080p signal into something that it can use, but dvi doesn't carry sound, only picture. So to get both the picture and sound out of a single hdmi cable, I had to run it into a converter that split it into component video and stereo audio. So I went and got the thing that did that and filled all its holes full of cables. <br><br>Turns out the converter box is smart and the tv is stupid. The Ouya is putting out a 1080p signal and the converter diligently converts and then passes along that 1080p signal to the tv. The TV then promptly failes to display anything useful. <br><br>Knowing that the ouya can put out a 720p signal, I went looking for any way to lock the output of the little grey box to that lower resolution. I even tried sending terminal commands to it from my pc. No dice. I thought that I might be able to have the converter tell the ouya to output a 720p signal, but the converter is having none of that. It's a completely non discriminating converter. If the ouya says 1080p, well that's good enough for the converter. Converter don't judge, man. <br><br>And so, the ouya sat there for weeks, building up a tangy dust frosting. Until this:&nbsp;<br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><a href="http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2359390" target="_blank">http://forum.xda-developers.com/showthread.php?t=2359390</a><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span>That's the thread where some kind soul created and posted a set of mods for the Ouya. One of them purporting to lock the hdmi output to 720p. I tried it. It worked. The Ouya now sends a signal that all the digital nonsense between it and my eyeballs understands. <br><br>So now that I have all that worked out I can finally give you my impressions of the thing. <br><br>It runs xbmc real well. <br></div>

		</div>
        