---
layout: post
title: "071"
date: 2014-03-10 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;">I started writing a piece about the building of my arcade cabinet, but I think it&rsquo;s important that I go back a bit. I just need to fill in the parts that let a reader understand why anyone would embark on such an endeavor in the first place. In 1998 I discovered MAME.<br><br>I was sitting in the basement surfing on very limited dial up internet. Something had put it in my head to look up Legendary Wings. <br><br>Legendary Wings is a Capcom shooter that came out in arcades about ten years earlier. During one summer, I had played the game an embarrassing amount at the local convenience store. It got to the point that I would walk into the store with one quarter in my pocket, drop it into the machine, and play straight through to the end. If I didn&rsquo;t manage to complete the game with that one quarter, I considered it a failure and left the store to ride around on my bike some more. I could do that three or four times a day and make a few dollars last for a week. It was no wonder that I would still have a fondness for what I knew to be a fairly &nbsp;generic shooter.<br><br>During my search I found a few screenshots that were too large to comfortably download using my 56k modem. I also uncovered some information I hadn&rsquo;t been aware of, like the fact that the japanese release had different player characters to the version I had spent so many hours on. More importantly I found some people talking about how they had just played it. At home. On their computers. <br><br>Witchcraft! <br><br>Over the next couple of days I filled a ZIP disk with the MAME arcade emulator, a solid handful of mid 80s classic games and a couple other emulators with clever names like Nesticle, and Genecyst. Clever in a 5th grade sort of way. I had just downloaded a significant chunk of my childhood. <br><br>I had a keyboard and an old, pre-thumbsticks gamepad as controllers. I could play a half way decent game of Excitebike on a keyboard, but it was only a matter of time before I felt the need to graduate to proper arcade sticks. &nbsp;<br><br>About a year later I had access to broadband internet and the collection of arcade games grew well beyond the 100MB limits of a ZIP disk. I went hunting around and found that HAPP controls sold arcade parts to pleebs like me. I picked up a couple arcade sticks and a fistfull of buttons. I had absolutely no experience building arcade sticks, and really didn&rsquo;t have any materials to work with. I gathered up some scrap plywood, 2x4 offcuts, and a crap ton of acrylic paint to cover poor seams. <br><br>When I told some friends at school what I was going to do, we had a small arcade stick building party. I used my scrap wood and the circuit board from an old gamepad. My friend used MDF and a PS1 controller. Soldering up the very fine wires to the even finer solder points on the board was tricky. I&rsquo;ve gotten much better at it in the intervening years, but I&rsquo;m sort of surprised that both sticks ended up working perfectly.<br><br>I used that clunky stick for several years, until I finally decided that it was time to build a full arcade cabinet. As luck would have it, I had become a CNC router operator by then, and had access to both the tools and skills to build something more impressive than a scrap wood box. But I&rsquo;ll cover that next time. <br></div>

		</div>
        