---
layout: post
title: "101"
date: 2014-10-06 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span style=""><span style="">I&rsquo;m fairly certain an artist should not be the sole judge of their own work. Maybe a case can be made for the auteurs of the world having the final say on how their work gets presented. I think that is likely rubbish, and any creator given total control and freedom will either make something terrible, or just never finish anything at all. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">I&rsquo;ve been working on the same set of shaders for ages now, and while I can tell how the new version is subtly better than all the previous versions, it&rsquo;s doubtful that anyone else will notice, or care. I could probably put a few years into tuning an effect or model or bit of animation, and never be fully satisfied. It&rsquo;s a cliche that the artist is always the harshest critic, but I don&rsquo;t think that is really true. It&rsquo;s not that I think the things I make are terrible, it&rsquo;s that I know how much work it will take to improve them. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">I use to work in commercial art. Logos, layouts, designs, compositions, that sort of thing. Often I would work very hard at it, really put some solid thought and effort into making the best whatever I was making. Some of the stuff, I was really proud of. Sure I saw the flaws, the places that a bit more time, money, or material could have improved, but I wasn&rsquo;t upset about it. I felt like I had done a good job for the client and I was happy to present them with whatever it was they were paying me for. They were happy, I was happy, I could move on to the next job and do it all over again. This cycle played itself out almost daily. It certainly didn&rsquo;t drag on for months.</span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">So there is the problem, and also the solution. It isn&rsquo;t that artists are too critical of their own work to ever be satisfied. The problem is that the client can&rsquo;t be yourself. The time will never come when you won&rsquo;t send something back to yourself for revision. You will never hesitate to offer yourself notes. And on the other side, you won&rsquo;t take the extra step to please yourself. You won&rsquo;t put in overtime trying to meet your own standards. You already know that you are the worst kind of client. One that can never give a final sign off, one that can&rsquo;t resist asking for one more pass. So the solution I&rsquo;m working on is to not be the client. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">It might not be entirely healthy for a grown man to invent imaginary people. I&rsquo;ve got a client here with me, we&rsquo;ll call him Jeff. Maybe it&rsquo;s Geof. Either way, that guy is giving me the big thumbs up on this latest version of the shader. He tells me he has a bunch of orders to put through. 3D models, UI, animations, a whole stack of stuff he needs for this game. I couldn&rsquo;t be happier to help. I want this project of his to look great and I&rsquo;ll keep banging away on these orders. I may still see the flaws and the places where things could be improved, but Geof over here, he has pretty high standards and he says it&rsquo;s looking good. If he&rsquo;s happy, I&rsquo;m happy. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><br></span></div>

		</div>
        