---
layout: post
title: "121"
date: 2015-02-23 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span style=""><span style="">I&rsquo;ve been doing some 3D modelling recently. It&rsquo;s something I have been doing with varying degrees of success for almost 20 years. You would think that I would have it down by now. You would think that I would just do the job with no issues or stress. You would think that I would have worked out strategies for dozens of potential problems. You would think that I would fly through a project and rarely have to backtrack or repair blunders. You would think that I would have confidence in my own experience and abilities.</span><br><br><span style="">What I have is fear. </span><br><br><span style="">Not a crippling fear. Not a fear that stops me from attempting new things. It&rsquo;s a low level, pervasive fear. It&rsquo;s the fear that I can&rsquo;t do what I said I could. It&rsquo;s the fear that everyone is better than me at almost everything, and I have been fooling anyone who thinks otherwise. It&rsquo;s the fear that I will be found out as a fraud, and that everything I create will be sub-standard. This fear usually doesn&rsquo;t stop me, but it does slow me down. I can usually even recognize when it is slowing me down, but it is sometimes difficult to overcome it.</span><br><br><span style="">I have amassed a portfolio full of evidence that I am capable of modelling objects, animating, sculpting, constructing, working out solutions to problems. Occasionally I will look at some of it and feel like a real cool guy who knows how to do things and is really awesome at stuff. That lasts until I start on something new, and then it&rsquo;s all fear all the time. I usually spend way too long looking up the solutions devised by other people. Seeking help or advice when I honestly don&rsquo;t know how to do a thing is probably a smart move, but when it is just fear directing me with feelings of inadequacy, it&rsquo;s just a huge waste of time. </span><br><br><span style="">There is almost always a point in all of these projects that were slowed by fear, where I realize that the obstacles I was afraid of tackling have very simple solutions. Usually solutions that I am already very familiar with. Solutions that I have implemented time and again on other projects. I tend to get a lot done in a very short amount of time when this happens. I usually marvel at how trivial the problems holding me back turned out to be. </span><br><br><span style="">I&rsquo;m going to have to work harder on squelching minor fears. I&rsquo;m going to have to be better at harnessing that feeling when I overcome the fear and move forward. I think this is probably the most challenging problem I consistently come across in all the work I do. Overcoming fear is my full time job. Anything else I accomplish is consequential.</span><br></span></div>

		</div>
        