---
layout: post
title: "115"
date: 2015-01-12 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span style=""><span style="">I was thinking about some old games the other day, as I do. I was remembering Fighting Vipers, and it&rsquo;s sequel Fighting Vipers 2. These are some games that were never very popular, overshadowed by the far more successful Virtual Fighter series created alongside Fighting Vipers by Sega&rsquo;s AM2 arcade development division. Virtua Fighter is a precision tuned fighting game, built to go head to head with the Street Fighters and Tekkens of the genre. This a genre that contains as a staple, mystical martial arts experts that throw fire from their hands, so weird is relative. Whatever you might think of Virtua Fighter though, it&rsquo;s, odd duck, little brother Fighting Vipers, is weird. And weird games are great.</span><br><br><span style="">I don&rsquo;t know if there is another medium that has such a deep set tendency toward weird. I think it comes down to capability. Early on, video and computer games had to rely on a healthy dose of disbelief suspension. When you tell me that tiny pointillist light smear is Mario, I&rsquo;m just going to have to choose to buy in. Before that, the hero in Atari&rsquo;s Adventure was represented by a single square. Four edges, four corners, defeats a dragon. These were the limitations at the time so going weird or abstract is built into video games at the molecular level. </span><br><br><span style="">Now that there are mid to high end PCs powering every facet of the industry, a character that could be mistaken for an actual human is possible. We haven&rsquo;t seen one yet, but it is possible. Here is where we hit a crossroads. There are a lot of developers that would love nothing more than to hear a player say &ldquo;that looks real&rdquo;. While it might be an interesting challenge to take on, a mountain to climb, I think it&rsquo;s worth asking if realism is a thing that anyone really wants.</span><br><br><span style="">I can remember all the fun I had playing Fighting Vipers, or Saint Row 3, or Katamari Damacy, and I can remember being so glad that those games were weird. Weird in a way that evoked their evolution from the earlier days of Adventure, where a square could be anything, and all possibilities were available to explore. With all the fidelity available today, I&rsquo;m happy that a lot of games are still weird. I think it&rsquo;s an aspect of video games that sets them apart, and it&rsquo;s worth celebrating once in a while. </span><br><br></span><br>If you have any favorite weird games, or weird game moments, let me know in the comments. I am always down to talk about weird old games.&nbsp;</div>

		</div>
        