---
layout: post
title: "141"
date: 2015-07-13 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span style=""><span style="">Best Games - Twinkle Star Sprites</span><br><br><span style="">A bullet hell shooter hard as granite and a flop sweat inducing competitive puzzle game. Dress it up in childish, horrifically cute anime. Color schemes that can be best described as garish and audio like an elementary school squealing contest. Absolutely nothing about Twinkle Star Sprites should work. It is a Japanese arcade grab bag of bad ideas. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">It&rsquo;s also damn near perfect. </span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">In Twinkle Star Sprites you play as one completely ridiculous character selected from a roster of ridiculous characters. Each character rides on some sort of jet or robot or flying pig. Each flying monstrosity has different styles of attack pulled from every flying-shooting game from 1986-1996. You are shooting at friendly looking fluffy cloud creatures, attempting to get them to explode near enough to one another that it starts a chain reaction of exploding fluffy cloud things. Explode enough of them and it will send what appears to be an evil ghost comet streaking across the barrier between your playfield and your opponents. If you send enough of them your opponent will be overwhelmed and catch fire, ending in a looney tunes-esque charred husk with eyeballs. It&rsquo;s all stupid, it&rsquo;s all frantic, it's all incredibly fun.</span><br><span style=""></span><br><span style=""></span><span style="">Twinkle Star Sprites is a game that should probably never have been made, and sincerely hope that a million more get made just like it. </span><br></span></div>

		</div>
        