---
layout: post
title: "﻿216"
date: 2016-12-19 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Dev Update!</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Believe it or not I have been doing some small amount of game development these last few months. In a sporadic fashion I reopen my project, consult my sparse documentation to see what sort of checklist items I had open, and proceed to decipher what it was I worked on last. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">The last time this happened, I went ahead and reworked the way my game used physics. I also looked at the next item on my list and started working on that, only to discover that my past self had already completed that particular system ( a way of dynamically creating objects from sub objects ) and had devised a simple and elegant solution to the problem. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">I haven&rsquo;t done nearly enough work on this game, which is too bad, because it already controls pretty well. There isn&rsquo;t nearly enough game there to be fun yet, but the connection between your fingers and the game feels nice. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">I&rsquo;m not going to go into any detail though. I&rsquo;m not going to write about what it took to revise the physics interactions. I&rsquo;m not going to write about the slowly, but steadily congealing game mechanics. I&rsquo;m not going to write about my concept sketches, the theme, title, influences, or game loop. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">The next time I write about it will be when I have something to show, and I have something for people to play and offer feedback on. Until then, I&rsquo;m just not going to talk about it.</span></span></div>

		</div>
        