---
layout: post
title: "188﻿"
date: 2016-06-06 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span><span>I stopped reading a book this week. Not finished, just stopped. This book had come to me well recommended, and it was in a genre that I enjoy but hadn&rsquo;t read in quite some time, so I was interested. I really wanted to like it. I was rooting for this book, but I just can&rsquo;t find it in myself to read one more leaden passage. </span></span><br><span><span>Of course, putting down a book is not really an event worth noting. I don&rsquo;t feel moved to commit a feverish, gnashing review of the thing. It just wasn&rsquo;t very good. Hardly a crime. The ways in which this particular book failed to engage me, though, that was interesting. Reading just part of it has taught me some very important lessons about writing.</span></span><br><span><span>Just previous, I had finished Cormac McCarthy&rsquo;s The Road. In place of any grander review of that book I&rsquo;ll just say this. While I don&rsquo;t believe I agree with the author&rsquo;s world view here, I do think that The Road is a well written book. McCarthy has written a story that I find actively off putting in a lot of ways. Not the context of a post apocalyptic world, but his implied assumptions about the inherent darkness of human nature. Even with that, I kept reading, and actually enjoyed the book. The deftness of the writing carried the lurching pace and strained allegory. It was a good book, perhaps in spite of itself. </span></span><br><span><span>Funny enough, the book that I put down has almost the exact same aggregate review scores as The Road, so there are a lot of people out there that really like it. It took me several chapters to zero in on what was bothering me. When I finally got it, I knew I could safely stop reading and move on. </span></span><br><span><span>It might be shockingly obvious to everyone else, but I hadn&rsquo;t really realized that fiction in writing, just like in movies, is all about show, don&rsquo;t tell. Maybe I realized it, I just didn&rsquo;t appreciate the degree to which showing and not telling effected written works. That was the wall. That was my problem with this book. I was constantly being told what characters were thinking, and why, but I was never reading any descriptions of them actually doing things. Reading about them doing things in a way that reveals something important about their inner life without explicitly describing that thought process. Maybe that tell don&rsquo;t show sort of writing really works for some people, and the reader reviews seem to indicate that it does, but I bounced off that book incredibly hard. </span></span><br><span><span>I think I needed the sharp contrast between reading a book that I enjoyed, but had problems with the narrative, and reading a book that in summary sounds like something I would love, but just couldn&rsquo;t get through due to how the story was being told. </span></span><br><span><span>Now, I don&rsquo;t know that this one moment of slight understanding will do anything to improve my own writing, but I have to figure that every little bit helps. Regardless, I&rsquo;m happy to state that it took reading a bad book to make me understand good writing. </span></span><br><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        