---
layout: post
title: "172﻿"
date: 2016-02-15 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph" style="text-align:left;"><span><span>One of the advantages of writing these posts every week is that I have an instantly searchable record of all the dumb things that I thought over the past few years. Maybe that&rsquo;s a disadvantage. I&rsquo;m not sure really. Well, what&rsquo;s done is done. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span>A quick search through the past archive for &ldquo;Blender&rdquo; returned a dozen articles. The oldest mention was from 2011. That&rsquo;s sort of a while ago. In 2013 I was pondering moving to using Blender as my main 3D modelling tool. In 2014 I was fighting with the interface and some of the more obscure tools. By 2015 I seemed to be rounding the corner, and I no longer had my finger hovering over the &ldquo;buy Maya&rdquo; button. I was still having some trouble fully committing to using Blender, but I wasn&rsquo;t really looking back either. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Finally, after all that time, and a lot of models built, animated, and rendered, last month I realized I was thinking in Blender. I wasn&rsquo;t looking for Blender equivalents of tools from other programs. I was looking for keyboard shortcuts to make the tools available faster and more convenient. I have added a few shortcuts of my own to personalize Blender to the way I want to work. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span>It only took five years, but I got there. Or maybe I&rsquo;m getting there. It&rsquo;s hard to say. Whatever the case I finally feel comfortable using Blender for all my 3D modelling needs. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Last week I tried Clara.io and had a quick look at Onshape. They are web based 3D tools that let you work on models using a web browser. While they might be limited now, it&rsquo;s really only a matter of time before a web based art creation tool becomes a kids first, and maybe only tool. Professional workflows will be based around a tool that never actually resides on the user's computer. For a lot of writers, this is already the case. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In five years, I&rsquo;ll be able to do a search for this post and pinpoint the time when I started learning whatever comes next. </span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        