---
layout: post
title: "238"
date: 2017-05-22 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">I work on 3D models almost every day. Often I am creating new ones for 3D printing or game assets. Sometimes I am fixing up or prepping ones already created by someone else. I can say with some certainty that there is no right way to create a 3D model. There are techniques that suit certain situations but there is no fundamentally correct way to make a 3D model. None.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">This is when scores of people authoring hours of tutorials can tell me that I am wrong. They can point out all of the industry professionals that use process Y and how much better and faster and more efficient it is that process X. Complete Rubbish. There is no right way to create a 3D model. There are a lot of wrong ways, I have seen the results of many of them, but there is no right way.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">I&rsquo;ve been at this for a long time. Maybe too long. The tools and techniques change, but the end result never really has. If you are creating a model with the intention of animating it there are certain requirements. If you are creating a model to be fed into a cnc system like a milling machine or 3d printer there are other requirements. If the model is for use in an interactive system with controls and physics like a game or simulation there are, again, different requirements. How you build the model, the tools you use, just doesn&rsquo;t matter. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">If you are reading this, I didn&rsquo;t write this for you. I wrote it for me. I just need to remind myself every once in awhile that the tools don&rsquo;t matter. You can use all of them or none of them and the model that you end up with is the only thing that matters. </span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        