---
layout: post
title: "Changelog 0001"
date: 2017-09-13 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">This is Changelog 0001. I&rsquo;m creating a new series of posts that should go up at least once a week. Changelog will be a quick writeup on the state of game development over here. It&rsquo;s more for myself than anyone else, though you are welcome to read it. Just a simple entry describing any changes, additions, or struggles to/with game projects I&rsquo;m working on. Occasionally words will be accompanied by pictures or videos. Won&rsquo;t that be nice.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)"><br>For example:</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)"><br>&#8203;Having recently solidifying a convincing &ldquo;ball rolling effect&rdquo; script, I set about trying to make the AI enemies in my game attempt some level of collision avoidance while stalking the player. Today I got a very clunky, but consistent collision avoidance system working. I will have to go back in and improve it, but for combat testing purposes, it should work fine. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Next up is to have the enemies attack the player, rather than just try to shove them off the edge of the world &lsquo;Sumo&rsquo; style. Currently they just aren&rsquo;t very dangerous and can be tricked into flinging themselves off the world fairly easily. I&rsquo;ll have to add a little self preservation into the collision avoidance system. </span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">And there you go. That is a changelog. Now I can look back here in a couple of months and feel either good or bad that I did or didn&rsquo;t progress. Won&rsquo;t that be nice.</span></span><br><span></span><br></div>

		</div>
        