---
layout: post
title: "278"
date: 2018-02-26 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">AKA Changelog 0003</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">I realized the other day that I hadn&rsquo;t written a changelog in quite a while, like since last september. Until quite recently I have been working on other contracts and projects so not much headway was being made on my own game. I went back to see what I had written then. Unsurprisingly, not much has changed. No game dev elves picked through my files to fix anything or finish up my work. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">This post could be considered getting back into the swing of it again. I wrote back then that I was working on the enemy pathfinding and AI. I&rsquo;m right back at that, but I have given the Navmesh part of the pathfinding less and less priority in favor of independent enemy ai using sensors and a general awareness of the world. This seems to pair better with physics interactions and physics based movement. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">One major thing I have changed is that I started using the dungeon architect add on for unity to help create level layouts. It has been very helpful for testing, since I can now change levels and level elements with a couple clicks or a simple script. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Anyone reading this who is familiar with game development, and especially game development in unity, will be nodding along. Everyone else, sorry you suffered through that. Next week will probably be more story. </span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        