---
layout: post
title: "287"
date: 2018-04-30 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">We watched a movie the other day that wasn&rsquo;t very good. Like I have said here many times, movies, comics, games, or other works of art that aren&rsquo;t particularly good don&rsquo;t bother me that much. It&rsquo;s not the worst crime in the world to create something that isn&rsquo;t very good. Personally, I happen to enjoy a lot of stuff that sits right on the axis of mediocre and weird. I have actively sought out poorly produced, cheaply made things that match my particular interests. There is an honesty to presenting something and saying &ldquo;well this is the best we could do with what we had. I hope you like it&rdquo; . Those are the sorts of things that look they they were probably fun to make. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">That said, I still can&rsquo;t help but analyze narrative works that fall short. Were there one or two scenes or moments that could have made me care about what is going on here. Was there a particular twist that wasn&rsquo;t adequate sold to the audience before it happens. In short, if a creator wants me to care about what is happening in the story, did they earn it. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Watching a movie or reading a book that doesn&rsquo;t hit always makes me think about my writing or my own art. Mostly I think, that feeling I&rsquo;m trying to evoke, or that reaction I&rsquo;m trying to elicit, did I earn that. Even if the feeling I&rsquo;m going for is &ldquo;this is the best I could do&rdquo;, is it earned.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">That is what is going through my head most of the time while I move this story from outline/draft stage to draft/edit stage. Unfortunately I usually end up realizing, no, no it doesn&rsquo;t earn what I&rsquo;m going for. The only way to fix that is to type some more, fill in the blanks. Develop the characters and the setting. You know - write.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Pretty soon I will have to take a bunch of this collected work and post it up, you know when it&rsquo;s not a swiss cheese collection of disconnected scenes. Also I will have to specifically inflict it on other people for feedback so that I can ask them if the setups read as genuine and the payoffs are earned. </span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        