---
layout: post
title: "301"
date: 2018-08-06 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Best Games - Tetris</span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">It won&rsquo;t be news to anyone that Tetris is one of the best games ever created. Not just video games. Games. All games. Tetris is one of the best Games ever created. Tetris is that good. If the devices exits to play it, tetris will likely be played in much the same form as it is today well into the next century or further. Tetris will persist.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as Poker.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Video games are a technology driven artform constantly chasing better, more vibrant visuals, sharper fuller audio, more intelligent and challenging adversaries. All of this progress demands new programs and techniques and new silicon for those programs to run on. Tetris, by contrast, is an experience driven work of art. To Tetris players the look and sound of the game doesn&rsquo;t matter much at all. It only matters that it plays like Tetris.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Teris is as good a game as Auto Racing.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">You can spectate a game of Tetris exactly once, and understand how the game is played. You can play Tetris exactly once and start to develop strategies to improve your next game. You can continue to improve at it, but Tetris can&rsquo;t be beaten. It is a game that test your skill, no matter what level that skill happens to be.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as Golf.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">No matter what device you are currently reading this on, you could also use that device to play Tetris. That version of Tetris will play pretty well. There are definitely controls that people prefer, like joysticks or gamepads or different configurations and sizes of buttons, but even most touch screen versions of Tetris play just fine. It&rsquo;s so good what you play it on almost doesn&rsquo;t matter. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as Trivial Pursuit. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">There are a lot of different variations on the original game and you can choose to play most of them against the game or against another person. They are all slightly different experiences, but they share the same simple mechanics. No matter how you play it, no matter what version you play, Tetris is all about preparation. You have to prepare for the moment that the one piece you need is drawn randomly from the small group of available pieces. It&rsquo;s about using what you know of the system to plan ahead, but being ready to improvise when you need to. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as Chess.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as Soccer.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is as good a game as the 100 meter dash.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris will outlive its creator. Tetris will outlive its creators generation. And the next generation. And the next. Tetris will outlive the memory of its creation. </span></span><br><span></span><span><span style="color:rgb(0, 0, 0)">Tetris is one of the best games.</span></span><br><span></span><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        