---
layout: post
title: "359"
date: 2019-09-16 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>If there is one thing I am truly terrible at (I know, I know, it&rsquo;s more than one thing) It&rsquo;s self promotion. I will, from time to time, point at a sign or logo while out in the world and say to whoever I&rsquo;m with &ldquo;hey I made that&rdquo;, but that&rsquo;s about the depths of my braggadocio. I have had animations I made in TV commercials and up on billboards. I never saved any of them for a demo reel. I have made logos and designs for products and companies. None of them are in my portfolio. I don&rsquo;t really even have a proper portfolio right now. There are a few videos of me making some old models and doing some quick paintings, but that is about it. I should probably look at changing&nbsp;that.</span></span><br><span><span>I would like to start now, if even in a small way. For the few dozen people who read this (I get the metrics. On very rare occasions readership leaps all the way into the low hundreds!) I invite you to stop reading and head over to</span></span><br><span><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400"><a href="https://store.steampowered.com/app/990900/Neon_Noodles__Cyberpunk_Kitchen_Automation/">https://store.steampowered.com/app/990900/Neon_Noodles__Cyberpunk_Kitchen_Automation/</a></span></span><br><span><span>Neon Noodles is an open ended puzzle game being developed by Radu Muresan. I have been contributing on the art side. I happen to think it&rsquo;s shaping up into a pretty cool game. A writer for Forbes seemed to think so too&nbsp;</span></span><br><span><span>(</span><a href="https://www.forbes.com/sites/melissabrinks/2019/09/09/the-7-best-indie-games-i-played-at-pax-west-2019/#6d3f74443e1c"><span style="color:rgb(17, 85, 204); font-weight:400">https://www.forbes.com/sites/melissabrinks/2019/09/09/the-7-best-indie-games-i-played-at-pax-west-2019/#6d3f74443e1c</span></a><span> )&nbsp;</span></span><br><span><span>so that&rsquo;s a nice bit of outside validation.</span></span><br><span><span>If you use Steam to buy games, please add Neon Noodles to your wish list and consider giving it a look when it releases later this year. If you don&rsquo;t use Steam to buy games, tell someone you know who does. If you are better at promotion than me, go shout it from the rooftops. It might take me awhile to do any proper promotion. I&rsquo;m still learning how.</span></span><br><br></div>

		</div>
        