---
layout: post
title: "366"
date: 2019-11-04 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>I attended the RebootDevelop Red game development conference this past week. Somewhere, tucked away in the back of my memory, is the last time I ever attended a game development related conference. When I was there I witnessed a spirited demonstration of Samba De Amigo, a maraca based rhythm game. I also tried out a version of the real time translation functionality in Phantasy Star Online. If you know either of these two games, you know that it has been quite a long time since I was at a game development convention. According to people I talked to who had attended conferences like GDC and PAX, RebootDevelop is not the usual fare.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I could write stories about who I saw, what we did, and conversations that I had, but I would really rather not. There is a reason why I number rather than title all of these posts. I have a strong belief that that some experiences should be ephemeral. Some moments need not be recorded. I realize that all of these posts are searchable and discoverable, but I don&rsquo;t really make it easy. Maybe for the internet that is ephemeral enough.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Here is what I will say. I don&rsquo;t know if I have ever been more convinced that what I am trying to do, making games, is the only thing I should be doing. It&rsquo;s not that I couldn&rsquo;t do other things. I certainly spent a long enough time in the various branches of advertising. If I needed to I could probably create store displays, commercials, and promotional banners again. But that isn&rsquo;t what I should be doing. I should be making games.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Every person I talked with, every person I had even a brief interaction with while at lunch or refilling coffee or ordering my third beer for the night, every single one of them was working in games because if they didn&rsquo;t, no one else would.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The long and short of it is, making games is incredibly hard. It&rsquo;s technically, artistically, economically, and emotionally hard. Everyone I met had skills that could take them far in other industries. They could all be wildly successful doing anything easier than making games. But they weren&rsquo;t doing other things, because they couldn&rsquo;t do other things.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>At some point during the three day conference I was in the middle of a conversation with a game developer and I realized something. The game they were telling me about the game they were proud of, and had put so much of their effort and passion into, if they hadn&rsquo;t worked on it, no one would have. That game would simply have never existed without that one person&rsquo;s dedication. The thing was, it was a very good game. It needed to exist. The world is a better place because that game exists. And without that one person, that game would not &lsquo;be&rsquo;.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There are games that I want to see in the world. There are games that I think need to exist. The only thing stopping them is that I haven&rsquo;t made them yet. I need to change that.</span></span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        