---
layout: post
title: "414"
date: 2020-10-05 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span>I&rsquo;ve been doing some work <a href="../story-007---unfinished.html" target="_blank">over here</a>. I try to write on it at least once a week, but I haven&rsquo;t been posting them up because most of what I have been writing doesn&rsquo;t directly follow what is already there. I have some holes in the story. Great wide gaping ones. Ones that would cause the whole thing not make a lot of sense if you tried to read it. I don&rsquo;t know about you, but that doesn&rsquo;t sound like a story that would be much fun if you randomly came across it.</span><br><span><span>Nearly every one of these over 400 posts have been written using Google Docs. It&rsquo;s easy to use, convenient, and it autosaves to a server somewhere that I can access through whatever device I happen to have available. I type most of these on a computer but I have written them on phones and tablets. For whatever reason, I didn&rsquo;t think that Google Docs was what I needed for more long term writing.</span></span><br><span>I have tried using a lot of open source and commercial writing apps and none of them really did what I needed. Most recently I have been using Wavemaker. In fact almost everything <a href="../story-007---unfinished.html" target="_blank">over there</a> was written using Wavemaker. It works well. It&rsquo;s multiplatform and it works on mobile devices, but it is just a little bit too fiddly for my purposes. I like it, I just don&rsquo;t think I need it.</span><br><span><span>So in the last few days I have taken all my pages, my notes, my character bios, my outlines and backstory, and moved it all over to Google Docs. I use the outliner panel to break up chapters and scenes and I have everything else split up into different docs in a directory. Right now it feels fairly organized. I will probably clutter it all up soon enough, but for now it&rsquo;s everything I need to keep writing without all of the &ldquo;writing tools&rdquo; that I never use.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span><span>Eventually I will stitch enough of the holes together so that I can start posting up chapters again, but until then I can at least feel comfortable writing and editing with whatever device I happen to have close at hand. Writing 3 sentences on my phone is better than not writing at all because I don&rsquo;t have my laptop nearby or I don&rsquo;t have my files synced up.&nbsp;</span></span><br><br></div>

		</div>
        