---
layout: post
title: "408"
date: 2020-08-24 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>Best Games - Trackmania</span></span><br><span></span><br><span><span>You could learn how to race a car. You could study every minuscule technical detail that makes one car perform better than another. You could master aerodynamics and the physics of rubber on asphalt. You could steel your will and steady your hand when contending with other vehicles and drivers traveling down the same track at high speed. You could simulate all of this in a racing game.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Or you could do none of that and play Trackmania.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>You pilot a car, yes, around a track, yes, but Trackmania is nothing like Forza or Gran Turismo. Trackmania is not like car racing.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Trackmania is filled with impossible tracks that you careen down as fast as you possibly can. There are other vehicles on the track but they are intangible and you will have no interaction with them besides watching the path that they drive. There are special interactive zones on the track that will speed up or slow down your car. Some will cut your engine forcing you to glide the remainder of your race so you best have your speed up before you hit them. Solving this puzzle of speed and angles, drift and airtime, that&rsquo;s what Trackmania is.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>You can play it with the four arrow keys on your keyboard. That might be the best way to play Trackmania.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>There have been about 150 different Trackmania games. Don&rsquo;t let that fool you. They are all the same game. They are all a perfect distillation of speed, reaction, and anticipation. They are all perfect games.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Trackmania is one of the best games.</span></span><br><span></span><br><br>&#8203;</div>

		</div>
        