---
layout: post
title: "407"
date: 2020-08-17 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>This past weekend I participated in the Alberta Game Jam. Game creators from all over the province convened over Discord to put on this remote version of the game jam. While I usually find the fun of a game jam is working with a team, I opted to attempt this one solo. It wasn&rsquo;t very successful.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The past two times I did a solo jam it was so that I could try something different. I wrote a random text adventure that you couldn&rsquo;t win and made a single pixel at a time drawing program with no instructions.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Both times I was working with tools I wasn&rsquo;t very familiar with and using it as an excuse to mess around. This time was very similar. There were a few things that I wanted to test out using tools that I am fairly familiar with but never have the opportunity to try. Some of those things worked, but even more of them didn&rsquo;t.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In the end I wound up making the beginnings of a 2d platformer. I had even intended to use a readily available character controller script but when that didn&rsquo;t pan out like I had hoped I ended up writing my own. It&rsquo;s not perfect but it has most of the features I wanted to add and it would be fairly simple to reuse or extend it in the future.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>I tried a bunch of stuff with shaders and some of that worked and some of it didn&rsquo;t.&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>In the end I didn&rsquo;t make much of a game, but I did learn a few things and I now have all the basics for a simple 2d character controller. So that&rsquo;s not nothing I guess.&nbsp;<br>&#8203;I wouldn't recommend&nbsp;it but if you want to poke at the thing I made it's over here.<br>&#8203;</span></span><a href="https://eturnip.itch.io/after-the-storm" style="font-family: &quot;Droid Serif&quot;; background-color: transparent;">https://eturnip.itch.io/after-the-storm</a><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        