---
layout: post
title: "403"
date: 2020-07-20 00:00:00 -700
categories: Blog
---

<div class="blog-content">
				<div class="paragraph"><span><span>The wizard sits.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The wizard reclines, luxuriating upon the fabric of the universe pulled taut. Seated on a product of their own will. The imposition of their desire on local space. A type of calm radiates through their form. A body of flesh and metal coalesced through technology and sorcery. All one and the same, at a fundamental level. The forces and the fabric. The knowledge and the tools. Blood and muscle and conduits and electrical load. The suppression of fear, hesitation. The intent to manipulate. All the same. All the same. At a fundamental level.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The wizard sits and thinks.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Plans. Strategies. Tactics. Reflex and reaction. Everything must be aligned toward one singular goal. Visualize and execute.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The Void Lords demand entertainment. Diversion from the ceaseless roar of the void. In exchange they provide reward. To the victorious. To defeat a Sorcerer is to become a Sorcerer. Use of power begets power. Victory begets victory. These are the terms of existence decreed by the void. Stakes of life and power. Wizards will battle, Sorcerers will topple, a Sorcerer&rsquo;s aspect consumed by another. But a wizards charge, above all else, is to put on a good show.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>The wizard sits. The wizard waits.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>Some pace. Some wail. Some seethe, rending the air about them with arcs of furious power. The wizard sits. The wizard contemplates. When the darkened gyre gapes and ushers them toward combat, the wizard will be ready. When the buzzer sounds, when the shot is fired, the wizard will be ready.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>For now, the wizard sits.</span></span><br><span></span><span><span>&nbsp;</span></span><br><span></span></div>

		</div>
        